Access specifiers includes
Default – They are also called package-private Access Modifiers as the declarations
made using Default Modifiers are visible only within the package.

Private – The declarations made using Private Modifiers are visible within the class only.

Protected – The declarations made using Protected Modifiers are visible within the
package or all subclasses.

Public – The declarations made using Public Access Modifiers are visible everywhere.

Private Access Specifier
The private access modifier is specified when any member of a class is prefixed
with the private keyword. In comparison with the other access modifiers, this is
the most restricted access modifier.

When the methods or data members are prefixed with a private access modifier,
the visibility of these methods and data members are restricted so, they can be
accessed only within the same class where they have been declared, they will not
be visible to the outside world.

If we have another class from the same package still, we will not be able to access
these methods or data members. So usually, we keep the class variables and methods as
private, which are intended to be used inside the same class where declared.


Default Access Specifier
It is not a keyword. Any Java members such as class or methods or data members when
not specified with any access modifier they are by default considered as default access
modifier. These methods or data members are only accessible within the same package and
they cannot be accessed from outside the package. It provides more visibility than a
private access modifier. But this access modifier is more restricted than protected and
public access modifiers.



Protected Access Modifier
It is a keyword. This access modifier is used to access the methods or data members
of a class within the same package as well as outside the package but only through
inheritance. The protected access modifier has more accessibility than private and
defaults access modifiers. But it has less visibility than the public access modifier.



Public Access Specifier
It is a keyword. If a class member like variable, method, or data members are prefixed
with a public access modifier, then they can be accessed from anywhere inside the program.
That is, they can be accessed within the same class as well as from outside the different
class.

It also includes access within the same package and also from outside the package.
The members like variables, methods, and other data members can be accessed globally.

Using public access modifiers we can provide access to the members most simply.
There are no restrictions on public access modifier members. Hence, it has the widest
accessibility or visibility scope as compared to the rest of the access modifiers.

